# Vuecli (docs websiste)

Documentation website for Vuecli, built by [Vuepress](https://vuepress.vuejs.org) and hosted by GitHub Pages.

Vuepress is a minimalistic static site generator powered by [Vue](https://github.com/vuejs/vue), a light JavaScript framework.

Prerequisites:
- Node.js >= 8.0.0
- Node package manager NPM
- Python2 or Python3 (for a simple local HTTP server)

### 1. Workflow
Install node packages (only need to execute once if `package.json` changes)
```sh
npm install
```

Build site
```sh
# built products are in docs/.vuepress/dist
./build.sh
```

Examine site locally
```sh
# serve site on localhost:8012/URL_ROOT, where URL_ROOT is defined inside examine.sh
./examine.sh
```

Publish site to Internet
```sh
# push to the upstream repo specified inside publish.sh
# that upstream repo is automatically published by GitHub Pages
./publish.sh
```
### 2. Files and directories
- `package.json`: Node module manifest
    > `node_modules/` and `package-lock.json` are generated by `npm install`. Can be deleted.
- `build.sh`, `examine.sh`, `publish.sh`: workflow scripts for building, local examination, and publishing. Described above
- `site-config.js`: symbolic link to `docs/.vuepress/config.js`, Vuepress site configurations (see below).
- `docs/`: all document and asset files go here.
    - `.vuepress/`: store Vuepress-related files
        - `config.js`: site configurations, including the navigation bar.
        - `public/`: static resource files, e.g. images, that are not referenced in any of your Markdown files or theme components.
        - `components/`: [Vue](https://github.com/vuejs/vue) components, will be automatically registered as global components.
        - `*.styl`: styling override.
        - `dist`: where the generated website go. Can be deleted.
            > Among others, the HTML files converted from Markdown files by Vuepress will be stored here, and the static resources will be copied here.
    - other directories and files: the Markdown files to be used to generated the website.

### 3. How to use this site framework for other site on GitHub Pages
- Change the `base` property in `config.js` to `/URL_ROOT/`, so that the root of the published site is at `username.github.io/URL_ROOT/`. If you wish to publish directly under `username.github.io/`, set `base` to `/`.
- Change the `URL_ROOT` variable in `examine.sh` and `publish.sh` to match your `URL_ROOT` given above. If you wish to publish directly under `username.github.io/`, set it to be an empty string.
- Make modifications to files under `docs/`.
    > Vuepress's official docs:[Vuepress](https://vuepress.vuejs.org)<br>Non-official tutorial: [Vuepressbook](https://vuepressbook.com)

###### EOF
